README.md, before:

# WorldSkills Skill Advisor Tracker

WorldSkills Skill Advisor Tracker is a full-stack Next.js 14 application that helps Skill Advisors (SA) and Skill Competition Managers (SCM) collaborate on competition deliverables, gates, and communication.

## Features

- 🔐 Email/password authentication with [NextAuth (Auth.js)] and Prisma-backed user accounts.
- 🆕 Self-service account registration with secure password hashing.
- 👥 Role-based permissions for Skill Advisors and Skill Competition Managers.
- 📋 CRUD management for Skills, Deliverables, and Gates backed by Prisma ORM and Neon PostgreSQL.
- 💬 Messaging workspace for each skill with an auditable activity log.
- 📊 Dashboard views tailored to each role with progress summaries.
- 🎨 Responsive UI built with Tailwind CSS and shadcn/ui-inspired components.

## Tech stack

- [Next.js 14](https://nextjs.org/) with the App Router and TypeScript
- [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) ORM connected to Neon PostgreSQL
- [NextAuth](https://authjs.dev/) for authentication
- Tailwind CSS and Radix UI primitives for styling
- pnpm for dependency and script management

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 22.x (Vercel now builds this project on the Node 22 runtime)
- pnpm 9.15 (installed via [`corepack`](https://nodejs.org/api/corepack.html) or `npm i -g pnpm`)
- A Neon PostgreSQL database URL

### 1. Clone and install

```bash
pnpm install
```

> The repository ships with a `package.json` that references all required dependencies. Running `pnpm install` will generate the `pnpm-lock.yaml` file locally.

### 2. Configure environment

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and update the values:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Required variables:

| Variable | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `DATABASE_URL` | Neon PostgreSQL connection string (`?sslmode=require` recommended). |
| `NEXTAUTH_SECRET` | Long random string used to sign NextAuth JWTs. |
| `NEXTAUTH_URL` | Application URL (e.g. `http://localhost:3000` for local dev). |
| `HOST_EMAIL` | Primary Skill Advisor email. This account is treated as the host/admin and always receives the SA role. |
| `HOST_INITIAL_PASSWORD` | Optional. Plaintext password assigned to the host account during seeding (defaults to `ChangeMe123!`). |

> **Note:** The optional `HOST_INITIAL_PASSWORD` is only used when the seed script creates the host account. Update the password after logging in or rerun the seed with a new value whenever you need to rotate it.

### 3. Generate the Prisma client & run migrations

For local development (this will create the Auth.js tables—`Account`, `Session`, `VerificationToken`—alongside the domain models):

```bash
pnpm prisma:generate
pnpm prisma:migrate
```

When deploying to Vercel, the default build script automatically runs `prisma migrate deploy` after generating the client, so your production database stays in sync with the schema.

### 4. (Optional) Seed sample data

A lightweight seed script creates one SA, one SCM, and an example skill:

- The SA uses the `HOST_EMAIL` value (defaults to `luke.boustridge@gmail.com`).
- The SA password defaults to `HOST_INITIAL_PASSWORD` (or `ChangeMe123!` when unset).
- The SCM remains `scm@example.com` with password `SamplePassword123!` for exploration purposes.

```bash
pnpm prisma:seed
```

### 5. Start the development server

```bash
pnpm dev
```

Visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to create an account or sign in with an existing one. The address defined by `HOST_EMAIL`
is always granted the Skill Advisor role, and the seed script creates a default SCM user (`scm@example.com` / `SamplePassword123!`) so you can explore the UI locally.

## Running tests & linting

```bash
pnpm lint
```

(Additional automated tests can be added in future iterations.)

## Deployment

1. Push the repository to GitHub.
2. Create a new Vercel project from the repository.
3. Set the following environment variables in Vercel:
   - `DATABASE_URL`
   - `NEXTAUTH_SECRET`
   - `NEXTAUTH_URL` (e.g. `https://your-vercel-app.vercel.app`)
   - `HOST_EMAIL`
   - Optional: `HOST_INITIAL_PASSWORD` (if you want to set the host password during seeding)
4. Trigger a deployment. The build pipeline runs `pnpm build`, which in turn executes `prisma generate`, `prisma migrate deploy`, and `next build` so your Neon database is migrated during the build step.
   - Vercel detects the pinned pnpm version from `package.json`/`packageManager` and runs `pnpm install` on its Node.js 22 runtime, matching the local toolchain without extra Corepack steps.
5. For additional safety you can also run `pnpm prisma:deploy` locally or via CI prior to the first deploy.

## Scripts

| Command | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `pnpm dev` | Start the Next.js dev server. |
| `pnpm build` | Generate Prisma client and create an optimized production build. |
| `pnpm start` | Start the production server. |
| `pnpm lint` | Run ESLint using Next.js configuration. |
| `pnpm prisma:generate` | Regenerate the Prisma client. |
| `pnpm prisma:migrate` | Apply migrations locally (`prisma migrate dev`). |
| `pnpm prisma:deploy` | Apply migrations in production (`prisma migrate deploy`). |
| `pnpm prisma:seed` | Seed the database with sample users and a skill. |

## Project structure

```
src/
  app/
    (auth)/login           # Auth flow
    (dashboard)/*          # Protected dashboard routes
    api/auth/[...nextauth] # NextAuth handler
  components/              # shadcn-inspired UI primitives & layout components
  lib/                     # Auth, Prisma client, utilities
prisma/
  schema.prisma            # Database models
  seed.ts                  # Seed script
```

## Notes

- Deliverable state changes, evidence submissions, gate updates, and chat messages all write to the `ActivityLog` table for auditability.
- Only Skill Advisors can adjust deliverable states or gate statuses. SCMs can add evidence links and messages.
- Uploads are tracked as evidence URLs (file storage integration can be added later).
- A tracked `public/` directory is available for static assets.
- The included `vercel.json` enforces the `.next` build output so Vercel reuses the same pnpm 9.15 toolchain as local development on Node 22.

## License

This project is released under a proprietary “All rights reserved” license. See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

feat(seed): add WSC 2026 skills

README.md, after:

# WorldSkills Skill Advisor Tracker

WorldSkills Skill Advisor Tracker is a full-stack Next.js 14 application that helps Skill Advisors (SA) and Skill Competition Managers (SCM) collaborate on competition deliverables, gates, and communication.

## Features

- 🔐 Email/password authentication with [NextAuth (Auth.js)] and Prisma-backed user accounts.
- 🆕 Self-service account registration with secure password hashing.
- 👥 Role-based permissions for Skill Advisors and Skill Competition Managers.
- 📋 CRUD management for Skills, Deliverables, and Gates backed by Prisma ORM and Neon PostgreSQL.
- 💬 Messaging workspace for each skill with an auditable activity log.
- 📊 Dashboard views tailored to each role with progress summaries.
- 🎨 Responsive UI built with Tailwind CSS and shadcn/ui-inspired components.

## Tech stack

- [Next.js 14](https://nextjs.org/) with the App Router and TypeScript
- [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) ORM connected to Neon PostgreSQL
- [NextAuth](https://authjs.dev/) for authentication
- Tailwind CSS and Radix UI primitives for styling
- pnpm for dependency and script management

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 22.x (Vercel now builds this project on the Node 22 runtime)
- pnpm 9.15 (installed via [`corepack`](https://nodejs.org/api/corepack.html) or `npm i -g pnpm`)
- A Neon PostgreSQL database URL

### 1. Clone and install

```bash
pnpm install
```

> The repository ships with a `package.json` that references all required dependencies. Running `pnpm install` will generate the `pnpm-lock.yaml` file locally.

### 2. Configure environment

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and update the values:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Required variables:

| Variable | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `DATABASE_URL` | Neon PostgreSQL connection string (`?sslmode=require` recommended). |
| `NEXTAUTH_SECRET` | Long random string used to sign NextAuth JWTs. |
| `NEXTAUTH_URL` | Application URL (e.g. `http://localhost:3000` for local dev). |
| `HOST_EMAIL` | Primary Skill Advisor email. This account is treated as the host/admin and always receives the SA role. |
| `HOST_INITIAL_PASSWORD` | Optional. Plaintext password assigned to the host account during seeding (defaults to `ChangeMe123!`). |

> **Note:** The optional `HOST_INITIAL_PASSWORD` is only used when the seed script creates the host account. Update the password after logging in or rerun the seed with a new value whenever you need to rotate it.

### 3. Generate the Prisma client & run migrations

For local development (this will create the Auth.js tables—`Account`, `Session`, `VerificationToken`—alongside the domain models):

```bash
pnpm prisma:generate
pnpm prisma:migrate
```

When deploying to Vercel, the default build script automatically runs `prisma migrate deploy` after generating the client, so your production database stays in sync with the schema.

### 4. (Optional) Seed sample data

A lightweight seed script creates one SA, one SCM, and all 64 WorldSkills Competition 2026 skills:

- The SA uses the `HOST_EMAIL` value (defaults to `luke.boustridge@gmail.com`).
- The SA password defaults to `HOST_INITIAL_PASSWORD` (or `ChangeMe123!` when unset).
- The SCM remains `scm@example.com` with password `SamplePassword123!` for exploration purposes (every skill is temporarily assigned to this SCM until you reassign it).

```bash
pnpm prisma:seed
```

### 5. Start the development server

```bash
pnpm dev
```

Visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to create an account or sign in with an existing one. The address defined by `HOST_EMAIL`
is always granted the Skill Advisor role, and the seed script creates a default SCM user (`scm@example.com` / `SamplePassword123!`) so you can explore the UI locally with all seeded skills.

## Running tests & linting

```bash
pnpm lint
```

(Additional automated tests can be added in future iterations.)

## Deployment

1. Push the repository to GitHub.
2. Create a new Vercel project from the repository.
3. Set the following environment variables in Vercel:
   - `DATABASE_URL`
   - `NEXTAUTH_SECRET`
   - `NEXTAUTH_URL` (e.g. `https://your-vercel-app.vercel.app`)
   - `HOST_EMAIL`
   - Optional: `HOST_INITIAL_PASSWORD` (if you want to set the host password during seeding)
4. Trigger a deployment. The build pipeline runs `pnpm build`, which in turn executes `prisma generate`, `prisma migrate deploy`, and `next build` so your Neon database is migrated during the build step.
   - Vercel detects the pinned pnpm version from `package.json`/`packageManager` and runs `pnpm install` on its Node.js 22 runtime, matching the local toolchain without extra Corepack steps.
5. For additional safety you can also run `pnpm prisma:deploy` locally or via CI prior to the first deploy.

## Scripts

| Command | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `pnpm dev` | Start the Next.js dev server. |
| `pnpm build` | Generate Prisma client and create an optimized production build. |
| `pnpm start` | Start the production server. |
| `pnpm lint` | Run ESLint using Next.js configuration. |
| `pnpm prisma:generate` | Regenerate the Prisma client. |
| `pnpm prisma:migrate` | Apply migrations locally (`prisma migrate dev`). |
| `pnpm prisma:deploy` | Apply migrations in production (`prisma migrate deploy`). |
| `pnpm prisma:seed` | Seed the database with sample users and the WSC 2026 skill list. |

## Project structure

```
src/
  app/
    (auth)/login           # Auth flow
    (dashboard)/*          # Protected dashboard routes
    api/auth/[...nextauth] # NextAuth handler
  components/              # shadcn-inspired UI primitives & layout components
  lib/                     # Auth, Prisma client, utilities
prisma/
  schema.prisma            # Database models
  seed.ts                  # Seed script
```

## Notes

- Deliverable state changes, evidence submissions, gate updates, and chat messages all write to the `ActivityLog` table for auditability.
- Only Skill Advisors can adjust deliverable states or gate statuses. SCMs can add evidence links and messages.
- Uploads are tracked as evidence URLs (file storage integration can be added later).
- A tracked `public/` directory is available for static assets.
- The included `vercel.json` enforces the `.next` build output so Vercel reuses the same pnpm 9.15 toolchain as local development on Node 22.

## License

This project is released under a proprietary “All rights reserved” license. See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for details.
